SpecMatch can be used to adapt the sound produced by a Guitarix
setting to another recorded sound.

It can also be used independently of Guitarix (cf. specmatch --help).
Then you will need another convolver like the LV2 Convolution Reverb
to use the produced filter. You can also use just the Python modules
(e.g. from specmatch import SmoothedIR).


Installing:
----------------
Dependencies:
 - python2.7
 - python-gtk2
 - jack-stdio
 - python-pip

Use "sudo ./install" to install under /usr/local (or
"sudo ./uninstall" to remove the installation).

For other target prefixes (like /usr) use
"sudo ./setup.py install --prefix=XXX" and consult the install script.
Undoing the installation needs to be done manually is this case.


Running:
----------------
It should be available from your desktop environment or the command
line as "specmatch".


Usage:

SpecMatch needs jackd, if its not already running use qjackctl (or
similar) to start jackd.

SpecMatch works with project-files (extension .specmatch). On the
first start a file selection window will appear enter a project name.
On subsequent launches the last selected project will be opened
automatically. You can use the "Change File" button to select another
project file or create a new one (changes in projects will be
auto-saved).

Guitarix will be auto-started by SpecMatch (if you start Guitarix
manually, you need to use the option "-p 7000" so that SpecMatch can
remote-control it).

Click on "Original Sound" and select a file. Press the play symbol
(triangle) and set a range (for long sound files it's better to set a
small range first). The sound snipped should not be much longer than
10 seconds. For stereo sounds, you can select one of the channels (or
the sum) or produce a stereo IR.

Use "Recorded File" to select a recording of your Guitar (dry, without
processing), or just enter a new file name and use the "Record"
button. The recording will wait (pause symbol) until there is sound
(red light), and stop when there is at least 1 second of silence (if
you see a scissor symbol, the input is clipping and you should lower
the preamp level).

Now select the convolver (amp mono chain or gx stereo chain). The
stereo convolver can also load mono IR's. If you selected stereo for
your original sound, the stereo convolver will be used.

After "Generate IR" click the "play" button and "A <-> B" to listen
and switch between the original sound and your own processed recording.

In addition "Generate IR" sends the IR to Guitarix and activates the
Convolver, so you can check the sound with your guitar. You can have
quick cycles of changing Guitarix settings, producing a new IR and
listening to the sound. An additional (linear) filter in front of the
convolver does not make much sense, but you can put it in front of a
distortion unit.

If you change the size of the IR or the FFT cutoff level (below that
level it's assumed that spectral information is drowned in noise and
values are interpolated or extrapolated). You can look at the plots to
find out what changes, but you should also check with your ears...

The "Deploy" button lets you select a name / directory for the
produced IR. It also sets the filename in the convolver, so you can
define the setting with the IR included as a new Guitarix preset.
